17
5. Human interest
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
"Development defined“
★ 1. No Poverty
★ 2. Zero Hunger ★ First Development Decade
★ 3. Good Health and Well Being
★ 4. Quality Education UNDERDEVELOPED-DEVELOPING
★ 5. Gender Equality
★ 6. Clean Water and Sanitation First World - developed
★ 7. Affordable and Clean Energy Second World- industrial-commercial
★ 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Third World - developing
★ 9. Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure
★ 10. Reduced Inequalities ★ Second Development Decade
★ 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities
★ 12. Responsible Consumption and Development was defined as the improvement
Production of the quality of life of the individual.
★ 13. Climate Action
★ 14. Life Below Water Indicators: Enough food, clothing, footwear and
★ 15. Life on Land shelter; meaning employment; equality
★ 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions education
★ 17. Partnerships for the goals
★ Third Development Decade
LESSON 1 Women in Development
(role of women; gender issues)
DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISM Environment (environment impact assessments)
Social Dimensions (social and cultural impacts)
In the 60s, development was known to be the
Indigenous people (modernization of cultural
observable signs of an increasing gross
minorities)
national product, the gauge of a nation's wealth
Sustainable Development
Journalism has the purpose to empower the
(Convergence of economic, social and
informed.
environmental goals
Journalism provides people with the
information they need to make the best
possible decisions about their lives, their
DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISM
communities, their societies, and the
governments.
Development Journalism a type of writing and
reporting on topics related to the process of
Opened the door for government control of the
economic development
press.
It is the communication process that is used to
Western commercial media were free.
serve the development goals of the government.
3rd world - controlled and manipulated by
Sometimes called as development support
political elites.
communication or government say-so
journalism.
News Values of Development Journalism
1. Development
It talks about the development of a person's
2. Social Responsibility
perspective of his nation through journalism, the
3. Education
act of disseminating information that would
4. National Integration
open the minds of the public to the reality.

DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISM ★ Housing Conditions
★ Environmental Sustainability
It is the kind of journalism that pays sustained ★ Urban and Rural Development
attention to the coverage of ideas, ★ Gender Equality
policies, programs, activities and events dealing
with the improvement of the life of people.
Perspective of Development
Journalism
1. Development Journalism is a notion of 1. Journalists as Nation Builders
journalism according to which 2. Journalists as Government Partners
which reporting events of national and 3. Journalists as Agents of Empowerment
international. 4. Journalists as Watchdogs and Guardians
of Transparency
2. Significance should be constructive in the a. Pro-process
sense that it contributes positively to the b. Pro-partcipation
development of the country concerned.
Five Principles of Development
ELEMENTS OF JOURNALISM Journalism.
11. JOURNALISM'S FIRST OBLIGATION IS TO 2. Development journalism is concerned
THE TRUTH with, social, cultural and political aspects
12. ITS FIRST LOYALTY IS TO CITIZEN of development, not just the economic.
13. ITS ESSENCE IS A DISCIPLINE OF Development journalism promotes and
VERIFICATION. contributes to humane development,
14. ITS PRACTITIONERS MUST MAINTAIN AN which focuses on helping people meet
INDEPENDENCE FROM THOSE THEY their basic needs, empowering people to
COVER. articulate their concerns and manage
15. IT MUST SERVE AS AN INDEPENDENT their development, and ameliorating
MONITOR OF POWER. poverty and inequality?
16. IT MUST PROVIDE A FORUM FOR
PUBLIC COMPROMISE. 3. Development journalism is democratic
17. .IT MUST STRIVE TO KEEP THE and emphasizes communication from
SIGNIFICANT INTERESTING AND the "bottom up." Bottom up reporting
RELEVANT. results in news that includes the voices
18. IT MUST KEEP THE NEWS and perspectives of people most
COMPREHENSIVE AND PROPORTIONAL. adversely affected by modernization. By
19. ITS PRACTITIONERS MUST BE ALLOWED prioritizing the views of people at the
TO EXERCISE THEIR PERSONAL grassroots level, development journalism
CONSCIENCE. allows them access to mass audiences
20. CITIZENS, TOO, HAVE RIGHTS AND and policy makers.
RESPONSIBILITIES WHEN IT COMES TO
THE NEWS. 4. Development journalism is both
pragmatic and unconventional in its
approach to reporting. While traditional
DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISM
journalism reports facts perceived to be
true and makes a conscious effort to
A Feature on development journalism may cover remain detached from the subject of the
the following issues: story, development journalism makes
explicit efforts to promote reform and
★ Economic Development encourage social action.
★ Agriculture and Food Security
★ Health, Sanitation and Medicine 5. Development journalists take on the role
★ Employment of professional intellectuals, providing
★ Education añd Literacy energy for social movements and helping
★ Information Technologies Development create awareness about the need for

action.
Journalists can help "articulate the achieve their goals and develop their
concerns of emergent forms of protest, attributes as civilized men.
putting them into broader frameworks,"
● As individuals, they can only do little but
and showing their "deeper meaning and
as members of the state, their potentials
significance."
are enormous.
6. Development journalists encourage the ● Always place a man or chosen men as in
production of development journalism at position to lead and be obeyed.
multiple sites, both geographically and ● The source of truth may be accredited
within the overall structure of the news divine revelation, the wisdom of the race,
industry. The more concentrated media
or simply the superior ability of a leader
ownership in a country is, less likely to
or group to perceive dangers and
have a media freedom.
opportunities.
● There should be no publishing which, in
the opinion of the authorities, would
DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISM
injure the state and (consequently) its
citizens.
● All publishing should contribute to the
Development journalism was conceived in the
greatness of its beneficent state, which
1960s at the Press Foundation of Asia (PFA),
would as a consequence enable man to
where Filipino journalists Alan/Chalkley and
Juan Mercado were concerned that news grow to his fuller usefulness and
organizations were inadequately covering happiness.
socioeconomic development.
Origins of Authoritarianism:
Journalists were reporting government press
1. The Doctrine of Divine Right (Monarchs)
releases and quotes but giving little attention to
2. Roman Church (Church as repository of
detailed analysis, interpretation,
Divine Revelation
evaluation of development projects, policies, or
problems. 3. Authoritarian Political Philosophy
(Reaching back to Plato)
Their concerns led Chalkley and Mercado to
organize seminars at the PFA to journalists in the Degree of Control
art of development journalism.
● Countries where control of some or all of
the media is complete
● Countries where political criticism by
LESSON 2
some or all of the media is possible, but
where censorship operates.
FOUR CONCEPTS OF MASS ● Countries where special laws and other
COMMUNICATION discriminatory legislation expose media
workers and executives to arrest and
persecution.
(Theories of the Press)
● Countries where unofficial methods
I. Authoritarianism discourage criticism or opposition from
● 1450 - modern communication was born the media
in an authoritarian society.
● An essential characteristic of an II. Soviet Communist Theory
authoritarian society is that the state ● It is related to the authoritarian theory
ranks higher than the individuals in the ● Started 1918 until now
scale of social values. ● In this system, the state owns or in some
● Only through obedience of the way controls all forms of mass media
individuals to the state can individuals directly

● The
authority for all mass communications is traditional knowledge and seemed to
in the hands of a small group of party vindicate the power of human reason
leaders. over inherited and revealed knowledge
● Reformation, challenges the authority of
How it worked/works: the church of rome and brought forth
● They play down everything bad under discussion and argument of sharp
communism while variance with authoritarian pattern.
● Play up everything bad in democratic ● Swift new growth of the middle class and
countries of capitalism, both challenged the old
idea of fixed status and ushered in a
world of social mobility.
III. Libertarianism
● 16th to 17th century Libertarianism and Communication
● From the great revolution of popular 1. The mass communication system that
mind and body politic which would result from libertarianism would
characterized Western Europe then. be private enterprise - privately owned
● A time of starting change, succeeding media competing in an open market.
apparent or relative changelessness. 2. Advertising emerged rather than political
● Political revolutions, challenging the subsidy
right to arbitrary rule. 3. Make the market place which is
● The most revolutionary intellectual restricted by capital demands a truly free
movement of all time. market place of ideas and facts.
● The new theory put its roots down into 4. “Enlightened self - interest”
the kind of intellectual change
represented by the Enlightenment of the
17th and 18th centuries. IV. Social Responsibility
● In place of more formal controls, ● Provides for private ownership of mass
libertarianism chooses to trust the self - media in exchange for responsible use of
righting the process of truth. that media.
● Ideas must have an equal chance and ● Tied to a form of government that is
that everyone must have access to the based on the Constitution and the Bill of
channels of communication. Rights.
● The media is given an enormous power.
Enlightenment: ● At the same time, we hold the media to
“The conviction that human understanding is the highest standard of responsibility, or
capable, of its own power and without recourse of social responsibility.
to supernatural assistance, of comprehending Democracy is messy
the system of the world, and that this news way Orderliness comes from control.
of understanding the world will lead to a new Criticism:
way of mastering it.” ● The mass media have wielded enormous
power for their own needs.
Essence: ● The owners have propagated their own
The task of the society is to provide a free market opinions, especially in politics and
place of ideas so that men may exercise reason economics, at the expense of opposing
and choice. views.
● The mass media have been subservient
Origins: to big business and at times have let
● Penetrating developments in geography advertisers control editorial policy and
and science, which challenged the editorial content.

● The
mass
media
● Government agencies, non-government
have often given more attention to the
organizations (NGOs), religious orders,
superficial and the sensational in their
grassroots organizations, state colleges
coverage of human happenings than to
and universities.
the significant, anf their entertainment
● The audience themselves: farmers, rural
has often lacked substance
women, out-of-school youth, the urban
● The mass media have invaded the
poor, illiterates etc.
privacy of individuals without just cause.
● The mass media are controlled by one
How media are controlled?
socio-economic class - loosely, “the
● Social priorities and realities
business class”, and access to the media
is difficult for the newcomer: therefore,
What are forbidden?
the free and open market of ideas is
● Monopolies
endangered.
● Government propaganda
● Manipulative advertising
V. Development Communication
● Immorality/obscenity, Inanities
Journalism
(messages that serve no positive social
● Argued with little reservation that this is
purpose)
the Fifth Theory of the Press.
● It is the appropriate system given the
Ownership:
social and political structures of the
● Development agencies
developing world and its current global
● Communities
environment.
Essential differences from others:
Developed:
● Although it is non-profit, ownership is not
● In the Third World
limited to the government sector.
● In United Nations food and agriculture
● Although it may not be controlled by the
programs, Latin American educational
state, it is purposively employed for social
campaigns, as well as international
transformation.
population programs.
● From an authoritarian thesis there
● In church outreach programs and
developed a libertarian anti-thesis.
government community development
● The synthesis of these two resulted in the
projects.
Soviet Totalitarian (Called by Lowestein as
● As an academic program of the
"Social Centralist") and developed an
University of the Philippines - College of
anti- thesis on Social Responsibility
Agriculture
Theory of Post- war United States
● Synthesis found in Development Media.
Out of:
● The philosophy of Gandhi (the full
realization of Man’s potential) WRITING FOR DEVELOPMENT JOURN
● The writings of Seers, Lasswell, Lerner,
Freire, Schramm, and Quebral.
Development Journalism has one intention
Chief purpose:
● Social transformation and development - Development of an individual in the society and
society as whole.
● The fulfillment of basic needs
The goal of writing development journalism is to
Who has the right to use Media?
commit for a positive change.

The goal is to
transform
people for
social change 5. Highlight limitations and challenges -
through adequate, non exploitative and logistical issues, pointing out the flaws of the
sustainable information. given response.
What media have not thought of Development 6. Include affected voices first - prioritize sot and
Journalism? quotations
- Revisit the concept of Development and 7. Address “What’s in it for me?” - how it impacts
Democracy. society as a whole
- When writing, allow people to talk.
DEVELOPMENT JOURNALISTS
STRATEGIES IN DEVJOURN
As catalysts of social change, we amplify the
1. Framing - “nation building” stories of the untold.
- Action after this? What? mobile phones.
- Should criticize both sides and in the end
should benefit the community. REQUIREMENTS IN DEVELOPMENT
JOURNALISM
2. Impact
1. Primary Goal
3. Relevance 2. Tone
3. Main subjects
★ A - awareness 4. Perspective
★ K - knowledge ● DevJourn - focuses on the case studies
★ A - ttitude ○ Lived experiences
★ P - ractice ● It has to be interventionist - consider the
solution/perspective journalism approach
4. Accountability - Dapat ipakita sa devjourn ● RA 2 SECTION 34: The State Shall Give
Importance On The Vital Role Of
5. Humanization - “Inhumanized” Information In Information
Communication Building.
- Ano yung mag papasimple sa kanila para ● After producing, next is public opinion
maunawaan ● There has to be an action itself
● Education, health, infrastructure
6. Solution Oriented ● Impact on citizens
● Bottom to up
● Laymanized
WRITING IN DEVELOPMENT JOURN
INVESTIGATIVE DEVELOPMENT
JOURNALISM JOURNALISM
1. Identify the systematic angle - you anchored
Longitudinal Focuses on the lived
the piece of the story. Climate adaptation is very
Focuses on the crime experiences and what
relevant. Anchor your case study.
should happen
2. Lead with human impact - start with a
compelling story/character.
3. Incorporate data and Evidence STRATEGIES:
4. Examine the response (Solution Approach) - 5. Framing
we check the existing response

a. framing stories around 4. Focus on emotion and context over
nation-building and sustainable
process equipment
6. Accountability
a. examining the gap scheme and 3 C’s Character Conflict Change
their actual impact
7. Humanization - Change (call to action)
a. Laymanize
b. impact , significance, relevance - Visual is more important than audio
c. focusing on the “ human
dimension” of poverty and social in documentaries
upliftment
d. What would make them practice - Videos are the one who’s telling the
it.
e. DevJourn is very Marxist story
8. Solution-oriented
a. there should be cognitive - Hayaang magkwento and case
dissonance. highlighting success
stories of people adopting new study
technologies or methods.
➢ Plotting Documentaries
➢ Conflict Resolve
➢ Find the Challenge
DO`S AND DONT`S IN DEVJOURN ➢ Dig More
➢ Get the Gold
★ Do use active, present tense verbs to ● Field Research, Puso ng Documentary
convey movement of urgency ● Kailangan maestablish ang tiwala to dig
★ Don’t use passive or vague doom more
★ headline ➢ TOP
★ Do pair the problem with the response ➢ HEART
whenever applicable ➢ BRANCHES
★ Don’t rely on academic jargon or acronym ➢ FRUITS
★ Do keep subheads available to add crucial ➢ ROOTS
context if the main title is short
To have effective development journalism
❖ DELVE
ETHICAL REPORTING IN DEVJOURN ❖ DEBUNK
❖ DECODE
Debunk lahat ng nakasulat depende sa totoong
★ Build Trust First buhay ng Case Studies
★ Avoid “Parachute”
★ wag mag-ala mainstream reporting
★ Keep tone constructive LESSON 3
★ Don't sensationalize
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION
VISUAL STORYTELLING IN DEVJOURN
Intervention
1. Approach as one human to another
Immerse with people in the community
2. Listen before taking photos
Achieve developments
3. Build trust over time

Goal: achieve
positive social
change
● Economic - sustainability
● Personal - individuality
1 CULTURAL IMPERIALISM THEORY
● Spiritual - how are you present
(SILENT COLONIZATION)
● Social - involving yourself
● Cultural
● We dont know where problems come State that a dominant socio-political group
from influences and shapes the culture of the weaker
● Everything has become political group of nations through mass media.
Is the process of interviewing in a systematic or Different marginalized groups being neglected
strategic manner for the purpose of positive
social change. Since we have more access, we can help them be
more unified
➢ What could be sustainable? Change
could be: Social, Economic, Personal, Mass Media is used as propaganda tool to
Spiritual, Cultural, Political control and influence for economic and political
benefit of the dominant party.
“Development communication is the process of
intervening in a systematic or strategic manner EFFECTS OF THE THEORY
with either media (print, radio, tv and internet) or
education (training, literacy, and schooling) for ➢ For us to understand demographics
the purpose of positive social change. Change better
could be economic, personal, spiritual, social, ➢ Marxism (social classes)
cultural or political.” ➢ Created a deeper understanding of
cultural interaction and importance of the
- Thomas McPhail media within the broad mix of aid and
- AIDS 2016 commercial efforts.
- Soul City Institute ➢ Showed concerns
DevCom also talks about social process, which is The communist manifesto
described as the sharing of knowledge aimed at
reaching a consensus for action which takes into
account the interest, needs, and capacities of all
2 PARTICIPATORY COMMUNICATION
concerned.
THEORY
Communicating these efforts are crucial for the
interpretation of the messages as interpersonal ● Focuses on the effects of individuals on
communication plays a different role. small communication with the special
emphasis placed on the development of
Knowledge is based on the needs and capacity the third world.
● There has to be not just an
Communicating these efforts is crucial acknowledgement but action to
participation.
We need to shape public opinion ● So we know how effective our materials
are
Action moving forward ● Then the people wont collaborate if we
arent participatory.
EX: increasing HIV infections ● Assessing the communication needs and
the materials should be ____
How do you communicate? ● Should help the world
● Power of an individual to influence the
How do you make people move? world
● Dont settle for mediocracy.
THEORIES IN DEVCOMM (backbone)

Emerged to
counterbalanced theories and replaced ➢ On going examination of the theory and
modernization paradigm or cultural imperialism real-world practice.
approach.
4 TRANSFORMATION
Assessing the communication need that would
be helpful for the action
Enlightenment on a specific target audience on
Described the power of an individual to education of the native population in a way that
influenced the world. promotes active consciousness and critical
thinking changes implementation is taking
Thrives on input from people from all walls of life place.
and of every socio-economic sphere.
➢ For the materials to world of month not 5 CRITICAL CONSCIOUSNESS
for the sake of compliance
Active social and political involvement of the
PARTICIPATORY beneficiaries.
Paul Freire`s Model of Communication
Style Concepts PROBLEMS WITH PARTICIPATORY
COMMUNICATION
6. Dialogue
7. Conscientization - awareness ★ Monitoring, evaluation, and
8. Praxis - examination of the theory
implementation become difficult
9. Transformation - execution of the theory ★ How much participation should the
10. Critical Consciousness - active, socialist
indigenous
and political. ★ How will one facilitate
★ Education and translation issues
1 DIALOGUE EX: The Khomani Bushmen - information might
get distorted because the researchers never
experienced living in their world.
Has to be dialogue, has to be a talk between
communicators and the people or the
stakeholders.
3 ENTERTAINMENT-EDUCATION
consist of back and forth communication THEORY
between development organizations and
recipients. .
Many people see social media as an
entertainment factor. This easily captures their
2 CONSCIENTIZATION attention
Communication strategy and process by which
From the dialogue, there is an media messages are planned and created.
Acknowledgement, Awareness, handling of
inherent power differential and possible While many people see social media for instance
disadvertisement between org and recipient. a factor where can we have draw a line.
With entertainment education we capture the
attention of the masses.
3 PRAXIS
EX: Simply Mary, 1969 made in PERU
After we Acknowledge ang usapin sa dialouge
next is we plan
ICT FOR DEVELOPMENT (ICT4D)

EX: The Arab
Spring
- Has a Social stratification is greatly seen on societies
wave of non-violent among to those who are connected and are not
- Dec 17, 2010 named Mohamed Bouzazi to the internet,
set himself on fire as protest as being
harassed by public officials. Non-connected groups are sideline since they
- After being broadcasted similar protest don't share in the internet benefits of the
sparked emerged in Egypt, Syria and connected groups
Yemen.
- It is argued based on studies that in 2011 Social stratification - meron ng paksyon base
the incident has been driven by word of on the social state into not having internetivity or
mouth and other countries learned it to
traditional media like radio, TV, ★ UNIVERSAL ACCESS DIVIDE
newspaper.
CAUSES OF DIGITAL DIVIDE
WHAT IS ICT4D?
★ EDUCATION AND DIGITAL LITERACY
Information and Communication Technologies
for Development. seen as an investment on healing the digital
divide.
Was developed under the UNDE of the United
Nations. ★ INCOME LEVELS
ICT4D initiated to bridge the digital divide or High-income earners have more access to
digital aiding economic development by internet, while low-income earners see internet.
ensuring equitable access to up to day
communications. ★ GEOGRAPHICAL RESTRICTIONS
➔ Digital inequality is evident: between More development countries have more access
communities living in urban areas and to high-speed connections while less developed
living in rural settlements: countries have low scope to high-speed
➔ From demographics in terms of location connections.
chances are there could be already a gap
for those people with good internet Also values on the location, mountainous areas.
infrastructure and access to mobile
phones and other kind of mobilities ★ MOTIVATION AND GENERAL INTEREST
compared to those who don't have.
View it as
TYPES OF DIGITAL DIVIDE
➔ there is a portion of the global population.
★ GENDER DIVIDE
COMMUNICATION PLANNING (BIBLE
FOR DEVJOURN)
Seen on 2013 report that men connectivity
spreading drastically
A policy-driven approach to providing
It isnt spreading equally, men in low income stakeholders with information.
countries are 90 percent are more likely on a
mobile phone than women. Define why, who, when and how these
information will be communicated effectively.
184 million women who have no access on
cellphones. PARTS OF COMMPLAN
★ SOCIAL DIVIDE ★ Situational Analysis
○ examine the political,
socio-cultural, economic and
technical context.

○ Identify specific issues and ○ Degree - Specify how much
concerns in the environment change you expect and how to
which will affect the proposed find out it happened.
communication plan ★ Communication strategies
★ Communication Problem - Issues ○ Refers to the proper mix of
Identification messages, approaches, and
○ Refers to the gaps in the channels to achieve objective.
knowledge, attitude, skill, and or ○ May include pre, during, and
practice/behavior of the focused post-implementation of
audience. development programs.
○ Identified the gap between the ○ May include source, message,
existing and desired behavior. channel, and dissemination
○ Level of Openness to Change strategies.
○ Level of Awareness and ★ Monitoring and evaluation scheme
Knowledge ○ Measures the progress achieved
○ Level of Access or Exposure to in planning and managing a
Information program or project.
○ Level of Access to ○ Evaluates the effectiveness of the
Communication Channel plan created measurable by
○ Level of Interest output indicators.
○ Lack of Determination to Adopt a ○ Output Indicators must be
Product, Service, Skill, or Desired tangible, quantitative, and
Behavior measurable.
○ Level of Participation or ★ Administrative and Budgetary
Mobilization requirements
○ Direction of Public Information ○ It is the process of determining
★ Focused Audience the requirements in order to
○ Refers to the specfic audience achieve the desired goal of the
whose knowledge, attitude, and plan. Projects the expected
or behavior toward an issue expenses in completing the plan.
should be changed.
○ Analyses on the demographic, LESSON 4
sociographic, psychographic,
working conditions, and
communication health behavior.
THE ROLE OF NON-GOVERNMENT
★ Communication objective
ORGANIZATIONS
○ It is the declarative statements of
what to improve.
According to McGann & Johnstone in 2016, range
ABCD Approach in Communication
of groups and organizations from watchdog
Objective Formulation
activist groups
○ Audience - Specify a single
priority intended group ➢ Pursue public interest agenda
○ Behavior - Define the type of ➢ Defined to persuade public
change/s you expect ➢ 1839, believed first NGO is Anti-Slavery
Society
○ Condition - Determine when and
➢ NGOs - Originated from all over the world
under what condition these
and have an access to different levels.
changes to occur
➢ NGO founded after the two world wars,
primary humanitarians issues

➢ 1980s
the
world
bank INFORMATION
realized NGO is less corrupt and most
effective than the government.
TWO MAIN TYPES - that broadcasters serve to
➢ 6,000 in 1960s…….
quality
➢ 26,000 NGOs 1996)
★ GEOGRAPHIC COMMUNITIES - sense of
4 ROLES OF NGOs people living together
★ COMMUNITIES OF INTEREST -
5. Social Development
Designed to fulfill social and cultural needs by
6. Sustainable Community Development
allowing members of audience
7. Sustainable Development
8. Sustainable Consumption
Language is important
MAINSTREAM TYPES OF BROADCASTING - can
overlook under represent precisely
★ SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT - focus not only
on communities but in overall
Service to the Community
Major advantages that NGOs bring to this
★ Language which is spoken and
role.
understood the key consideration.
★ Comm Broad should operate in the
Flexibility
public interest and serve the voice and
information need of the community
★ SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY
★ Radio Stations - broadcasting the issues
DEVELOPMENT - Increase local
and providing a platform for the local
economic diversity
residents to articulate their demands.
★ Public Information - vital whether
Self reliance (development of local
during the day-to-day, non-emergencies
markets local processing, greater
or during a public media disaster such as
cooperation)
covid19 pandemic.
Protection and enhancement of
Emphises on maintenance and
biological diversity and stewardship of
enhancement on the image of the
natural resources
organizations.
Commitment of sustainable communities
➢ PRESS RELEASES
to social justice [justice-collective]
➢ NEWS RELEASES
➢ VIDEO RELEASES
★ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
➢
★ SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION - role as
partners to business/industry promoting
sustainable consumption PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE (PIO)
Successful categories such as but not limited to
What is PIO?
product development, sustainable housing,
labelions, world wildlife fund (wwf), green
Must create and enable clear and concise
purchasing, and marine stewardship.
communication.
Typically work for national and local government
COMMUNITY BROADCASTING
➢
COMMUNIT BROADCASTING ACCESS TO
Development of Celebrity Media and
Y RELEVANT

Influencers
Non-government Organizations across the world kadalasan, kahit napapagod na mag
used to stimulate awareness to first-world mungkahi.
countries..
Ipalaganap natin ang impormason para sa
Involvement of celebrity - started mga tao na kailangan nilang malaman, hindi
lang para malaman kundi para umakto, yung
ang tunay na isensya ng isang pagiging
peryodista.
Campaign started by Bob Geldof, an Irish
singer-songwriter in 2001.
PROBLEM INVOLVING CELEB
➢ Started in early 2000s
➢ Audience will focus at the celeb and
they will drown away by the purpose of
the event
➢ Celeb might stand in more
E.g: Photo of Beckham in Sierra Leone as an
Ambassador of Goodwill
- Lloyd Cadena and Angel Locsin
That's why hindi natin dapat maliitin ang celeb
sa pag-involve kasi we need to market the help,
hindi pwedeng masyadong advocate driven and
theorist group driven approach.
End quote of Madam - Kaya sinasabi ko sa
inyo… let me end my class Its not always about
what you stand again Iba-iba ang ating pag
unawa sa mga bagay sa mundo, what we have
to understand is that wag tayo mapapagod,
ipaalam sa mga tao kahit sarado ang kanilang
isip at nasa …. at para i-cancel na sila sa mundo
sa paraan ng kanilang pag-iisip, bagkus turuan
natin sila kung paano mas mag-isip ng maayos
dahil bata pa lamang sila exploited na sila sa
sana`y ang edukasyon ay karapatang pero ito
ay naging prebelehiyo para sa kanila kung
kaya`t iba ang pananaw ng pag-unawa nila,
kagaya ng mga kamag-anak natin na pinili
yung mga desisyon na against sa kanila.
Wag tayong kumansel, Mag Call Out tayo ng
maayos.
We don`t need to create so much emotional
famous bagkus what we have to create
uniformity and information kahit nakakapagod